## 2024/07/10

**First, thank you all for your attention, support, sharing, and contributions to LivePortrait!** ❤️
The popularity of LivePortrait has exceeded our expectations. If you encounter any issues or other problems and we do not respond promptly, please accept our apologies. We are still actively updating and improving this repository.

### Updates

- <strong>Audio and video concatenating: </strong> If the driving video contains audio, it will automatically be included in the generated video. Additionally, the generated video will maintain the same FPS as the driving video. If you run LivePortrait on Windows, you need to install `ffprobe` and `ffmpeg` exe, see issue [#94](https://github.com/KwaiVGI/LivePortrait/issues/94).

- <strong>Driving video auto-cropping: </strong> Implemented automatic cropping for driving videos by tracking facial landmarks and calculating a global cropping box with a 1:1 aspect ratio. Alternatively, you can crop using video editing software or other tools to achieve a 1:1 ratio. Auto-cropping is not enbaled by default, you can specify it by `--flag_crop_driving_video`.

- <strong>Motion template making: </strong> Added the ability to create motion templates to protect privacy. The motion template is a `.pkl` file that only contains the motions of the driving video. Theoretically, it is impossible to reconstruct the original face from the template. These motion templates can be used to generate videos without needing the original driving video. By default, the motion template will be generated and saved as a `.pkl` file with the same name as the driving video, e.g., `d0.mp4` -> `d0.pkl`. Once generated, you can specify it using the `-d` or `--driving_info` option.


### About driving video

- For a guide on using your own driving video, see the [driving video auto-cropping](https://github.com/KwaiVGI/LivePortrait/tree/main?tab=readme-ov-file#driving-video-auto-cropping) section.


### Others

- If you encounter a black box problem, disable half-precision inference by using `--no_flag_use_half_precision`, reported by issue [#40](https://github.com/KwaiVGI/LivePortrait/issues/40), [#48](https://github.com/KwaiVGI/LivePortrait/issues/48), [#62](https://github.com/KwaiVGI/LivePortrait/issues/62).
